part two of IELTS speaking which is
where you need to speak for two minutes
it's tough it's a really it's a really
nerve-racking scary yeah I guess so but
more sort of nervousness that's that
that's the biggest thing when you're
doing it you really have to collect
yourself remain calm
there's a lot of psychological things
that go on in this test I must say all
right looks like we're live on YouTube
so just before we begin if you're in the
webinar if my slides are not formatting
properly on your screen you may want to
go to YouTube live and just iont
speaking we should be popping up here
give me a second
nope where are we I also I also IELTS a
- okay
live on iron on YouTube fantastic and
automatically have 70 people there so
hello people on youtubes just put my
phone on mute and now let me open my
slide so we can get started
cool good stuff hello there my name is
Jay in this live class I'm going to
teach you about IELTS speaking part 2
obviously it's the second of three parts
to IELTS speaking and it's the most
difficult part it's the part where well
let me show you exactly what you need to
do so on test day you're going to be
given a task card in other words it's a
small piece of paper or or or they may
in fact even hand you a book and on that
page is going to be a look let me just
show you so you know what I'm talking
about you're going to see something like
this okay that's what's in front of you
and what's going to happen is you're
going to have one minute to prepare and
then you have to speak for two minutes
on this topic
okay so let's read this task card here
imagine that you get this on test day it
says talk about a building you like what
a building you should say where the
building is what it looks like what it's
used for and explain why you like it
this is the sort of level of mediocrity
of boringness that you may have to face
on test day it's really difficult to
speak for two minutes about a building
right I don't know about you but I would
certainly struggle with that because I'm
not an architect I'm not an engineer I
don't think about buildings that often
we need a strategy so that we can speak
for two minutes fluently and cover this
task card in other words we want to make
the examiner happy okay how do we do
that well we're going to tell three
stories about this task card
we call this PPF and we call it PPF
because we're going to tell a past story
a present story and a future story now a
lot of people are going
say all but you have to talk about the
task card well you don't really what
we're going to do is this so if you look
at that task card past story present
story future story in other words three
stories three different buildings this
makes it a lot easier but it says ah
building well if you look closely at the
criteria so in other words this is how
the examiner marks you this is how the
examiner gives you your grade there are
four aspects that they're listening for
okay one is called fluency and coherence
this is how you get a nine by the way
which I've done twice now fluency and
coherence in other words how smoothly
you speak and how well you structure
your speech lexical resource is the
vocabulary you use how precise it is
grammatical range and accuracy means how
much grammar you have and how accurate
it is and pronunciation there's nothing
on here about speaking on topic if you
don't believe me you can read this you
can pause the video and read this it's
from an IELTS examiner who has confirmed
this cool but the problem is I don't
have three stories about buildings well
you can make them up make up the three
stories based loosely on past
experiences in other words in this part
of the test you can it's not really
lying I don't want to call it lying I
want to say you can tell stories okay
it's not being dishonest because this
isn't just a test of your ability to
speak and use proper grammar and precise
words it's not a test of your honesty a
lot of people might struggle to tell how
you need to frame this to yourself is
your not telling a lie
you're telling stories so whether it's
your experience or another person's
experience or maybe you're just sort of
embellishing making stuff up it's
totally fine because the aim is to get
an IELTS now
the aim is not to be honest you're not
talking to your mother or your friend
you're talking to the IELTS examiner
tell a great story till three in fact
cool here's an example whoops
what's that sound sorry about that okay
so what I'm going to do I'm gonna give
myself one minute to prepare I'm gonna
talk you through how I prepare when I do
my IELTS speaking and yes I'm nervous so
I look at this toss card I say talk
about a building you like you should say
where the building is what it looks like
what it's used for and explain why you
like it okay
I've now got about 40 seconds left to
come up with three stories okay so the
past
what's a building from my past when I
was a child okay my school that's an
interesting building that I can talk
about I can say where it is what it
looks like what it's used for explain
why I like it okay present story I'm
gonna say at the moment okay what's it
what's a building that I've been that I
in my life at the moment well I could
talk about my office or you know what
I'm gonna talk about my apartment block
my apartment building because it's all
then it's kind of interesting I realized
that time has stopped by the way future
well in the future I'd like to go and
visit Angkor Wat
yes it's a building it's like a a temple
for example it's very interesting
historically okay I can honestly from
having done this test twice now the
minute you get to prepare it goes by
bomb and feels like 10 seconds on test
day because you're nervous so you have
no time really to write anything down
like no notes you certainly can't take
notes or think about the structure
nothing like that you've basically got
enough time to think of three stories
three buildings that's it then you begin
okay now it's your turn I want you to do
this whoops let's practice we'll do the
same one I'm gonna give you one minute I
want you to write down three buildings
one from the past one from the prison
one from the future then I'll give you
two minutes after these two tell your
stories your preparation time starts now
okay now you've prepared the IELTS
examiner will say okay now you can begin
so let's begin and do this ready two
minutes starts now you can start
speaking
and I've just realized I've given you a
different task card wait wait wait wait
wait wait hold on one second let me give
you another one you won't get - that was
an error on my own behalf
yes now we're ready to go okay
bum bum bum bum bum just wanted to scare
you okay you have two minutes to talk
about the three buildings starting now
how did you go did you speak for two
minutes
did you structure your your three
stories nicely did you start with the
past present and maybe if you had time
finished with the future story I hope
you did a couple of things I want to
talk to you about one is body language
and eye contact with the IELTS exam oh
it's important that you're friendly to
the IELTS examiner you you don't need to
suck up to the IELTS exam they they they
they're too professional even if you beg
for a higher score they'll never give it
to you they're only interested in your
speaking okay but it is important to be
polite and friendly what's interesting
is you don't need to worry about your
body language while doing this task okay
during this task I almost entirely focus
on my piece of paper sometimes I look up
at the examiner but really it's about me
speaking for the two minutes it's not a
conversation so I don't need to maintain
eye contact I just need to concentrate
on what I'm saying okay so don't worry
too much about body language during this
part of the exam I think it's him also
the other thing is the IELTS examiner
will stop you at two minutes okay so as
soon as you hit two minutes the Isles
examiner will say okay you can stop
there that's not a bad thing
you can't finish perfectly and conclude
perfectly each time in fact it's better
to just keep talking until they stop you
what else I'll do some Q&A at the end
anyway good let me just before I move on
just let me check my slides okay good I
that's good okay yes cool all right
let's do some more practice or just let
me ask you a question would you like me
to give you an example of an IELTS nine
would you like an example yes or no just
put it in if you'd prefer you to
practice all right you want to hear me
do it no prob
I promise you I have not practiced this
one so this is real I'll put it on the
slide so you can see the time ticking
down okay here we go talking about a
building today I would like to talk
about three buildings in fact I'm going
to tell you about a building from the
past one from the present and one from
the future so firstly the most important
building from my past and one that I
particularly like was in fact my school
I went to a very interesting school in
the countryside and the building that
the school was was very beautiful it was
a very long building with a very long
corridor up the middle it was a very
small school but they must have spent a
lot of money on the gardens because the
gardens surrounding the building which
was brick were particularly nice there
are also tennis courts and also a
football oval at that building as well
presently I'm living in an apartment
block which is quite an interesting
building it's an old sort of building
with very ornate details it's in
Melbourne in Victoria in Australia and
it's of course it's used for residential
purposes so there are various people who
live in this apartment building I like
it because I think it captures something
about the old world which is nice I
don't particularly like new apartment
blocks and new buildings I find them to
have a lack of character whereas my
building has certainly a lot of
character in the future I would like to
visit various buildings around the world
but one that comes to mind particularly
is Angkor Wat in Cambodia it's not quite
a building I suppose it's more like a
temple but I do think it has some
characteristics or aspects that a
building like it's a very interesting
historical site I believe it's located
near pnom Penh in Cambodia it I don't
know if you've seen it but it's
particularly beautiful and nowadays it's
just used for tourism
okay I don't know what that was like
I've done this twice I've got nines both
times so I suspected it was pretty good
okay let me tell you what goes on in my
mind when I do this first of all when
you do IELTS speaking part two you do
not see the timer so I spot perfectly
there at one second in the real test you
do not see the timer you have no idea
how long you're speaking for okay so
what you need to do is you need to
practice and you need to develop an
internal clock you need to start
practicing with your stopwatch with your
phone and you need to feel how long two
minutes goes for what you'll find on
test day though is because you're
nervous the time goes a lot quicker what
you need to concentrate on while you're
speaking is being very clear even I'm a
native English speaker right but I
really focus on speaking as clearly as I
possibly can and pausing and not just
going too quick okay I also try to use
interesting vocabulary I try to use
words then like ornate characteristics
corridor I purposely put in some of
these less common words so that the
examine knows that I have a broad
vocabulary for me grammar is not a
problem it's my native language but
you'll need to focus on being accurate
with your grandma you'll also notice
that I structured my talk first of all I
introduced it and I said I'm going to
talk about three buildings a past a
present in the future then I started
talking about the past and then I said
more recently I sort of stopped that
story started my new story I have been
living in it or in a beautiful old
apartment building for example in the
future so you can use those just to
introduce your next story that's all I
can think of but that's how it works now
it's let's do some more practice here we
go you have one minute to prepare
okay you have two minutes now to tell
your three stories
you
cool
how was that one that one was maybe
about the same level of complexity as
the one about the building
okay just another little tip an
interesting psychological tip what
you'll find in IELTS speaking as well is
because you're under enormous pressure
you'll start to tell stories that are
quite personal it's just it's very easy
to tell personal stories and you may
become emotional that's fine don't worry
about that really don't worry about it
if you embarrass yourself or say
something silly it just doesn't matter
okay the IELTS examiner is a
professional so go ahead and embarrass
yourself it's fine
okay just a little thing to think about
let's do another one and then we'll
finish up with some Q&A okay practice 3
here we go you have one minute to
prepare
okay you have two minutes to speak
bomb okay cool well done just before we
end I wanted to click the subscribe
button below because whenever I do a
live class if you're a subscriber you
will receive a notification on your
phone so you can watch these classes as
they happen okay so click that subscribe
button also click the like button so
this video will climb the ranks of
YouTube right let's just quickly talk
about alt 9 or how to go towards IELTS 9
so I mentioned that there were four
things kind of more like five things if
you want to get an IELTS nine or eight
or seven
you need to have fluency which means you
speak smoothly you need to structure
your your two-minute talk logically and
well you need to have precise vocabulary
you want to have accurate grammar and
you want to have clear pronunciation
these are really the five keys to IELTS
speaking okay fluency structure
vocabulary grammar and pronunciation so
this the method that I've just taught
you is excellent for improving
increasing each of these okay guys if
you need any help with your IELTS test
do check out WWE to language calm and
feel free to sign up for the live
classes on the website there if you need
any help we also give tutorials as well
as writing feedback got loads of
practice materials so do check out that
website right now though I'll do a
little Q&A so we can do that if you have
any questions please put them into the
chat okay here's one paavo how can the
PPF method be applied in case the the
task card says describe an important
festival in your country okay cool
that's a big one okay so you might want
to think about three festivals one you
went to when you're young or you can
just talk about three different
festivals that's all so far
you could say okay if you're in India
for example you can say okay Diwali is
an important festival in my country bla
bla bla
what's another important festival I'm
sure you can think of two more so they
might not necessarily be related to tut
to time but you can certainly tell three
stories the key thing is here that you
need to be flexible okay the PPF method
works for almost all but sometimes you
may need to shift it a little bit you
also need to be flexible with the PPF
method for example if it says talk about
a book you like okay just immediately
think childhood now future so you might
want to practice this to dip the dirt
Jai may I ask where we can find these
videos of online classes I know that
this one can be found on YouTube I am
asking about the other videos like the
one yesterday there on the website for
paid users only so you click on recorded
videos on in your student dashboard and
you can watch all of the methods lessons
in the daily that are recorded every day
okay fine so people are asking more
about you know different scenarios with
the task card again be flexible practice
it it's it takes a little bit but once
you've once you've got the this idea and
you've applied it to various topics to
various task cards you go AHA I know how
to do it so I won't answer specific
questions on that it's just practicing
it while I was doing the speaking
practice I made a mistake in grammar but
I corrected myself is this okay well my
points be subtracted whoa that's an
interesting one I don't know about self
correction whether you're lose points
for the first error or whether you don't
lose points because you corrected
yourself it's probably a good idea to
correct yourself actually so that's a
good thing to do
I'm taking my test on the 2nd of
December
it's IELTS general I want to pass with 7
bands
well good luck if you need help check
out the website we can help you out
thanks a lot for your great videos they
are really amazing thank you I
appreciate that let me just check out
YouTube see if we got any questions here
any questions ok I saw a question before
that said about the buildings ok about
the building and the question was can we
tell three stories about the same
building you can but that's that that's
difficult
I think past present future is a really
good method makes it how love a lot
easier ok I have another question here
which is what happens if you miss the
future story so you just tell the past
story in the present story that's ok
that's that's fine in fact what you'll
find is that because the time goes so
quickly you may only have about 10 or 20
seconds for your future story but the
whole purpose of this I'm sorry I should
have explained this earlier the whole
purpose of pee pee pee pee sorry PPF is
yes it helps you to to think into
structure but what it does and this is
why it's so clever it provides you with
great grammar and great vocabulary why
because you need to use different verbs
to express the time for example in your
past story you're going to be using past
tense verbs present story you'll be
using present perfect present perfect
continuous present content present
simple future you're going to be using a
range of modal verbs going to will plus
verb so the what it does it because if
you have that variety that range of
grammar and that it also increases your
vocabulary score so it's it's clever
it's really clever
okay adhara I won't do that but you can
just watch the other videos any more
questions
okay here's a question what if I write
other thing in the cue card and explain
in another way while saying the answer
it's fine you can write whatever you
like I suggest just writing three dot
points for PPF that's it correct so
here's a question Jay I wonder if I'm
correct I find in speaking that the
examiner considers how well you can
speak not what a relevant response you
give is that true correct you have to
speak about the task card for example if
it's about buildings you need to talk
about buildings but you don't lose
points for not answering a dot point and
if you go slightly off-topic it's
actually completely fine in fact there's
no marking on relevance to the task card
nothing there's nothing there's no
criterion that says you must speak on
topic okay you must you can't talk about
something completely different because
you'll lose marks for vocabulary I'm
happy for you to do the research on this
I certainly have now this is very
different to essay writing in essay
writing you must talk about the topic if
you don't then you will lose whole band
scores maybe even two so do keep that in
mind
cool all right guys thanks very much for
coming I appreciate it do remember to
subscribe like and share this video with
your friends I'm going to have a sleep
under my desk
I'm tired Tata
you